the most important events of 1988 
reprinted from the san francisco sunday examiner and chronicle 

nearly one in three american adults queried by the national 
science foundation said the sun revolves around the earth. 

in another survey, youngsters between 8 and 12 were able to 
name more brands of alcoholic beverages than former presidents. 
one 11-year-old boy who named eight brands of beer and wine 
said there are 16 inches in a foot. 

a gerbil was elected president of the student union at the 
university of east anglia in england. 

an animal rights group bought seven lobsters from a chinese 
restaurant in maryland and flew them to maine, where a coast 
guard boat took them back to the ocean. 

the president of new england's largest electric utility was 
killed by lightning. 

two men in sierra leone dug up a 307-carat diamond--one of the 
largest ever found--and then broke it into three pieces while 
arguing over whether it was really a diamond. 

rhode island's small businessman of the year was indicted on 
federal charges of racketeering and illegally dumping hazardous 
waste. 

on her tour of america, queen silvia of sweden asked heart 
surgeon dr. michael debakey why americans are so fat. 

a bystander watching a despondent man prepare to leap to his 
death from a bridge above the los angeles river approached the 
jumper to ask for his car since "you're not going to need it 
any more." 

more than 20 little leaguers in st. petersburg, fla., quit the 
organization in disgust after watching continuous brawls among 
their father-coaches. 

president reagan commissioned a salt lake city firm to create a 
jelly-bean-flavoured ice cream. 

the white house proclaimed october as national aids awareness 
month on november 1. 

the department of education refused to fund a holocaust 
education programme for public schools because the curriculum 
did not take into account the nazi and ku klux klan points of 
view. 

in confirming that nancy reagan consults an astrologer to shape 
the president's appointment schedule, a white house aide said 
reagan approved of the practice, but wanted it "kept very, very 
secret because he feared the public might misunderstand. 

in a speech at the college of southern idaho, president-elect 
bush said of reagan: "i'm proud to be his partner. we've had 
triumphs. we've made mistakes. we've had sex." bush later 
said he meant to say "setbacks." 

mother jones magazine revealed that reagan, who has opposed 
laws guaranteeing safer meat, keeps a private herd of 
organically-fed, hormone-free cattle near his santa barbara 
ranch from which his table-meat is drawn. 

a toronto man was found not guilty of killing his mother-in-law 
when the jury accepted the defense theory that he drove 14 
miles to her house, hit her with an iron bar and stabbed her 
while sleepwalking. 

in san jose, calif., a woman was jailed for refusing to clear 
her small two-bedroom home of 25 tons of rotting, rat-infested 
garbage. members of the woman's family said she hated to throw 
trash away because, "in the future, she might be able to use it 
for something else." 

a san antonio man arrested for hiring an assassin to slay mayor 
henry cisneros said he believed the u. s. constitution gave him 
the right to kill the city's mayor if his policies were 
unsound. 

a judge in santa ana, calif., levied a $58 fine against a 
driver for a mortuary transport service who failed to convince 
the court that four frozen cadavers in his van were legal car- 
pool passengers. 

a ten-year-old tucson boy stole his mother's car and drove it 
65 miles to the mexican border where he tried to sell it. 

a houston man, paralyzed from the neck down, killed his wife by 
mounting a pistol on his wheelchair and pulling the trigger by 
tugging on a string held in his mouth. 

a denver man, dissatisfied with the haircut he had just 
received--a total scalp-shave that left a bloody three-inch 
scar on the back of his head--returned to the salon and killed 
the barber. 

in ottawa, a man killed 22 neighborhood house cats, telling 
police he was distraught because his own cat had rejected him. 

a jury in san luis obispo, calif., awarded $6 million in 
damages to a woman whose jealous ex-husband, a gynecologist, 
sewed her vagina shut while she was undergoing a hysterectomy 
performed by another doctor. meanwhile, in hong king, a woman 
went to jail after cutting off the tip of her sleeping 
husband's penis with a pair of scissors and flushing it down 
the toilet. in both cases, the perpetrators were convinced 
their victims had been seeing other people. 

a spokesman for the california board of dental examiners 
revealed the board's enforcement personnel carry guns because 
"there are some dentists out there who have a criminal kind of 
leaning." 

herbert connolly of newton, mass., got to the polls minutes 
late on election day and was unable to cast his ballot. he 
lost his seat on the massachusetts governor's council by one 
vote. 

the fbi said it had conducted six years of surveillance on a 
17-year-old new jersey student ever since, as a sixth-grader, 
he wrote to the soviet union asking for scientific information 
for a school project. 

the city of honolulu paid $100,000 to a man who had been forced 
by two police officers to bob for toads in a drainage ditch. 

the centers for disease control gave baltimore a $48,000 grant 
to scoop up used condoms at a sewer treatment plant to count 
how many city residents use "safe sex" measures. 

michelle corwin, san francisco's registrar of voters, quit 
abruptly three weeks before november's election, which featured 
the longest ballot in the city's history. an "astonished" 
chief administrative officer rudy nothenberg said, "her letter 
indicated that, since she was planning to leave in january and 
because there was a lot of unpleasant work to be done between 
now and then, she would just leave now and save herself the 
trouble." 

media mogul rupert murdoch, whose fox television network was 
presenting "the late show" hosted by comedian arsenio hall, was 
approached by hall in the parking lot of a los angeles 
restaurant. murdoch handed hall his valet parking stub and 
said, "it's the green jaguar." 

giving new meaning to the term "white sale," a chain store in 
newark was found to have a memo posted by the cash register 
that read: "if any black person returns any sheet sets, deny a 
cash voucher or exchange or credit for any reason." 

touring ireland, michael jackson refused to kiss the blarney 
stone, saying, "no way am i going to kiss that thing. i might 
get aids or something worse." 

nevada gaming control board agents found a printing plate used 
by the imperial palace casino in las vegas to print bumper 
stickers saying "hitler was right." the agents also found a 
private room at the casino where owner ralph engelstad held 
private parties amidst his collection of nazi war memorabilia. 

in a tv interview, house of representatives republican leader 
robert michel bemoaned the end of black-face minstrel shows, 
saying, "i used to love to imitate amos 'n andy." 

during a meeting with gay leaders in garden grove, los angeles 
county, the wife of u.s. rep. robert dornan yelled, "shut up, 
fag!" to a member of the audience. she later apologized, 
saying she was distraught because her brother was dying of 
bjet/ uif cspuifs wpmvouffsfe gps bo ijw uftu bssbohfe cz uif 
los angeles times. it was negative. 

after a 19-year old black woman was found beaten to death with 
the letters "kkk" carved in her body, the kingston, n.y., 
district attorney said, "one investigative lead we are pursuing 
is that the murder may have been racially motivated." 

federal agents in new york seized 5,000 pounds of pure cocaine 
and $2 million in case stuffed into bags labeled "just say no 
to drugs." 

mexican drug smugglers reportedly put out $30,000 contracts on 
rocky, duko, and barco--three narcotics-sniffing dogs working 
the u.s.-mexican border. the dogs were thereupon fitted with 
bulletproof vests. 

an oakland woman was charged with assault after shooting her 
16-year-old daughter because the youngster refused to sell her 
$20 worth of rock cocaine. 

coors paid a six-figure settlement to an austin, texas, police 
officer who seven years ago found the headless body of a mouse 
in a bottle of coors beer he was drinking. since the incident, 
the policeman has been unable to watch television shows with 
beer commercials in them, has developed a fear of rodents that 
ended his hunting career and becomes physically ill when 
arresting driving-while-intoxicated suspects who have liquor on 
their breath. 

los angeles astrologer rockie gardiner said the planet that 
rules television is uranus. 

in the ultimate answer to those who think professional 
wrestling is faked, a 336-pound british grappler named big 
daddy killed his 350-pound opponent, king kong kirk, by 
executing his famous "splashdown" maneuver on the prostrate 
kirk during a match in great yarmouth. it took eight men to 
lift kirk's stretcher into the ambulance. 

a 51-year-old peoria woman went into her house, grabbed her 
husband's souvenir bayonet and ran it through the head of a man 
who'd dropped a beer can in her yard and refused to pick it up. 

a $300 million b-1b bomber crashed, killing three crew members, 
after being hit by a pelican. 

a man getting a haircut in a boston barber's chair was 
paralyzed from the neck down when a carpenter working on an 
adjoining building fired a high-velocity stud gun through a 
wall, hitting the victim in the neck. 

a 34-year-old pontiac, mich., man who lost an eye after a 
skyrocket exploded in his face during a backyard july 4th 
celebration sued his parents because, he said, they didn't have 
a permit for a fireworks display and should have stopped him 
from using fireworks because he was obviously drunk. 

a bored pediatrician from redlands, calif., admitted he faked 
his own attempted murder, including inserting a spent bullet 
into his abdomen and burning his penis to fake a sexual attack. 
the doctor burned and bruised his skin with a grinding tool, 
anesthetized his head and abdomen and jammed a rod into those 
areas to simulate being shot and then pushed a spent .32- 
caliber projectile into his stomach. after that he burned 
himself to make it appear he'd been sodomized with a flaming 
object. then he injected himself with demerol, bound his own 
legs, wrists and neck and lay down on the sidewalk, where 
police found him unconscious and injured. 

because the groom "looked very feminine and was heavily made 
up," a court officer in copenhagen asked him to drop his pants 
to prove he was a man before the wedding ceremony could 
proceed. 

a florida woman whose appeals for public help generated 
$689,000 in donations for her son's unsuccessful liver 
transplants refused to pay the boy's hospital bill after his 
death and allegedly spent much of the money on herself and her 
boyfriend, buying jewelry, property and a bmw. 

nine days after los angeles dodgers manager tommy lasorda 
hosted a celebration party at his restaurant for the world 
series champions, los angeles county health officials closed 
tommy lasorda's rigs & pasta for "one of the worst rat 
infestations" the health inspector had ever seen. 

the widow and two children of a knoxville, ill., man tended his 
body for eight years after his death, changing his clothing and 
putting fresh sheets on his bed in the apparent belief that he 
was just sick. the widow and her new boyfriend, a dentist, 
told police they were using potent herbal healing techniques on 
the mummified corpse. 

a woman in louisville, ky., tried to submit as a contest entry 
a display of nine dead animals--four squirrels, two opossums, 
two house cats and a chicken--wired to a board in the shape of 
a radio station's call letters. she was cited by the local 
animal protection agency. 

a defense attorney in sonora, calif., appealed his client's 
burglary conviction on the ground that the prosecutor disrupted 
the four-week trial by repeatedly passing gas. the defense 
lawyer charged "misconduct" on the part of the prosecutor, who, 
he said, "farted about 100 times during the trial. he even 
lifted his leg." the lawyer said the tactic was particularly 
disturbing to the jury during the defense's closing argument. 

Key:
["a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "i", "j", "k", "l", "m", "n", "o", "p", "q", "r", "s", "t", "u", "v", "w", "x", "y", "z", "0", "1", "2", "3", "4", "5", "6", "7", "8", "9", "<", ">", "?", ",", ".", "/", ";", "'", ":", "\"", "{", "}", "|", "[", "]", "\\", "-", "=", "_", "+", "`", "~", "!", "@", "#", "$", "%", "^", "&", "*", "(", ")"]
